### [707\. Design Linked List](https://leetcode.com/problems/design-linked-list/)

Difficulty: **Medium**


Design your implementation of the linked list. You can choose to use the singly linked list or the doubly linked list. A node in a singly linked list should have two attributes: `val` and `next`. `val` is the value of the current node, and `next` is a pointer/reference to the next node. If you want to use the doubly linked list, you will need one more attribute `prev` to indicate the previous node in the linked list. Assume all nodes in the linked list are 0-indexed.

Implement these functions in your linked list class:

*   `get(index)` : Get the value of the `index`-th node in the linked list. If the index is invalid, return `-1`.
*   `addAtHead(val)` : Add a node of value `val` before the first element of the linked list. After the insertion, the new node will be the first node of the linked list.
*   `addAtTail(val)` : Append a node of value `val` to the last element of the linked list.
*   `addAtIndex(index, val)` : Add a node of value `val` before the `index`-th node in the linked list. If `index` equals to the length of linked list, the node will be appended to the end of linked list. If index is greater than the length, the node will not be inserted.
*   `deleteAtIndex(index)` : Delete the `index`-th node in the linked list, if the index is valid.

**Example:**

```
Input: 
["MyLinkedList","addAtHead","addAtTail","addAtIndex","get","deleteAtIndex","get"]
[[],[1],[3],[1,2],[1],[1],[1]]
Output:  
[null,null,null,null,2,null,3]

Explanation:
MyLinkedList linkedList = new MyLinkedList(); // Initialize empty LinkedList
linkedList.addAtHead(1);
linkedList.addAtTail(3);
linkedList.addAtIndex(1, 2);  // linked list becomes 1->2->3
linkedList.get(1);            // returns 2
linkedList.deleteAtIndex(1);  // now the linked list is 1->3
linkedList.get(1);            // returns 3
```

**Constraints:**

*   `0 <= index,val <= 1000`
*   Please do not use the built-in LinkedList library.
*   At most `2000` calls will be made to `get`, `addAtHead`, `addAtTail`,  `addAtIndex` and `deleteAtIndex`.


#### Solution

Language: **Python3**

```python3
        return self._arr[index].val
        
​
    def addAtHead(self, val: int) -> None:
        """
        Add a node of value val before the first element of the linked list. After the insertion, the new node will be the first node of the linked list.
        """
        node=Node(val)
        node.next=self.head.next
        self.head.next=node
        self._arr.insert(0,node)
​
    def addAtTail(self, val: int) -> None:
        """
        Append a node of value val to the last element of the linked list.
        """
        cur=self._arr[-1]
        node=Node(val)
        cur.next=node
        self._arr.append(node)
​
    def addAtIndex(self, index: int, val: int) -> None:
        """
        Add a node of value val before the index-th node in the linked list. If index equals to the length of linked list, the node will be appended to the end of linked list. If index is greater than the length, the node will not be inserted.
        """
        if index==0:
            return self.addAtHead(val)
        elif index<=len(self._arr):
            cur=self._arr[index-1]
            node=Node(val)
            node.next=cur.next
            cur.next=node
            self._arr.insert(index,node)
​
    def deleteAtIndex(self, index: int) -> None:
        """
        Delete the index-th node in the linked list, if the index is valid.
        """
        if index==0:
            self.head=self.head.next
            self._arr.pop(0)
        elif index<len(self._arr):
            cur=self._arr[index-1]
            cur.next=cur.next.next
            self._arr.pop(index)
        
​
​
# Your MyLinkedList object will be instantiated and called as such:
# obj = MyLinkedList()
# param_1 = obj.get(index)
# obj.addAtHead(val)
# obj.addAtTail(val)
# obj.addAtIndex(index,val)
# obj.deleteAtIndex(index)
```